Confession.

1. IN time of Parliament it used to be one of the first things the House did, to Petition the King that his Con∣fessor might be removed, as fearing ei∣ther his Power with the King, or else, lest he should reveal to the Pope what the House was in doing, as no doubt he did when the Catholick Cause was concerned.

2. The Difference between us and the Papists is, we both allow Contrition, but the Papists make Confession a part of Contrition; they say a Man is not suffici∣ently contrite, till he confess his Sins to a Priest.

3. Why should I think a Priest will not reveal Confession, I am sure he will do any thing that is forbidden him, haply not so often as I, the utmost Pu∣nishment is Deprivation; and how can it be proved, that ever any Man revealed Confession, when there is no Witness? And no Man can be Witness in his own Cause. A meer Gullery. There was a time when 'twas publick in the Church, and that is much against their Auricular Confession.

Conscience.

1. HE that hath a Scrupulous Consci∣ence, is like a Horse that is not well weigh'd, he starts at every Bird that flies out of the Hedge.

2. A knowing Man will do that, which a tender Conscience Man dares not do, by reason of his Ignorance, the other knows there is no hurt, as a Child is afraid to go into the dark, when a Man is not, because he knows there is no Danger.

3. If we once come to leave that out∣loose, as to pretend Conscience against Law, who knows what inconvenience may follow? For thus, Suppose an Anabaptist comes and takes my Horse, I Sue him, he tells me he did according to his Conscience, his Conscience tells him all things are com∣mon amongst the Saints, what is mine is his; therefore you do ill to make such a Law, If any Man takes another's Horse he shall be hang'd. What can I say to this Man? He does according to his Con∣science. Why is not he as honest a Man as he that pretends a Ceremony establish'd by Law, is against his Conscience? Ge∣nerally to pretend Conscience against Law, is dangerous, in some Cases haply we may.

4. Some Men make it a Case of Con∣science, whether a Man may have a Pidgeon-House, because his Pidgeons eat other Folks Corn. But there is no such thing as Conscience in the Business, the Matter is, whether he be a Man of such Quality, that the State allows him to have a Dove-House, if so, there's an end of the Business, his Pidgeons have a right to eat where they please them∣selves.