Devils.

1. WHY have we none possest with Devils in England? The old Answer is, the Protestants the Devil hath already, and the Papists are so Holy, he dares not meddle with them. Why, then beyond Seas where a Nun is possest, when a Hugonot comes into the Church, does not the Devil hunt them out? The Priest teaches him, you never saw the Devil throw up a Nun's Coats, mark that, the Priest will not suffer it, for then the Peo∣ple will spit at him.

2. Casting out Devils is meer Juggling; they never cast out any but what they first cast in. They do it where for Reve∣rence no Man shall dare to examine it, they do it in a Corner, in a Mortice-hole, not in the Market-place. They do nothing but what may be done by Art, they make the Devil fly out of the Window, in the 
Likeness of a Bat or a Rat, why do they not hold him? Why in the Likeness of a Bat, or a Rat, or some Creature? That is, why not in some shape we paint him in, with Claws and Horns? By this trick they gain much, gain upon Mens Fancies, and so are reverenc'd: and certainly if the Priest deliver me from him that is my most deadly Enemy, I have all the reason in the World to reverence him. Objection. But if this be Juggling, why do they punish Impostures? Answer. For great reason, because they don't play their Part well, and for fear others should discover them; and so all of them ought to be of the same Trade.

3. A Person of Quality came to my Chamber in the Temple, and told me he had two Devils in his Head [I won∣der'd what he meant] and just at that time, one of them bid him kill me, [with that I begun to be afraid, and thought he was mad] he said he knew I could cure him; and therefore entreated me to give him something; for he was resol∣ved he would go to no body else. I perceiving what an Opinion he had of me, and that 'twas only Melancholly that troubl'd him, took him in hand, warranted him, if he would follow my Directions, to cure him in a short time. I desired him to let me be alone about an Hour, and then to come again, which he was very willing to. In the mean time I got a Card, and lap'd it up handsome in a Piece of Taffata, and put Strings to the Taffata, and when he came, gave it him to hang about his Neck, withal charged him, that he should not disor∣der himself neither with Eating or Drinking, but eat very little of Supper, and say his Prayers duly when he went to Bed, and I made no Que∣stion but he would be well in three or four Days. Within that time I went to Dinner to his House, and ask'd him how he did? He said he was much bet∣ter, but not perfectly well, or in truth he had not dealt clearly with me. He had four Devils in his Head, and he per∣ceiv'd two of them were gone, with that which I had given him, but the other two troubled him still. Well, said I, I am glad two of them are gone, I make no doubt but to get away the other two like∣wise; so I gave him another thing to hang about his Neck. Three Days after he came to me to my Chamber and profest he was now as well as ever he was in his Life, and did extreamly thank me for the great Care I had taken of him. I fearing lest he might relapse into the like Distemper, told him that there was none but my self, and one Physician more in the whole Town that could cure the Devils in the Head, and that was Dr. Harvey (whom I had pre∣par'd) and wish'd him if ever he found himself ill in my Absence, to go to him, for he could cure his Disease as well as my self. The Gentleman lived many Years and was never troubled after.
