Jus Divinum.

1. ALL things are held by Jus Divi∣num, either immediately or me∣diately.

2. Nothing has lost the Pope so much in his Supremacy, as not acknowledging what Princes gave him. 'Tis a scorn up∣on the Civil Power, and an unthankful∣ness in the Priest. But the Church runs to Jus divinum, lest if they should ac∣knowledge what they have by positive Law, it might be as well taken from them as given to them.

King.

1. A King is a thing Men have made for their own Sakes, for quiet∣ness-sake. Just as in a Family one Man is appointed to buy the Meat; if eve∣ry Man should buy what the other lik'd not, or what the other had bought before, so there would be a confusion. But that Charge being committed to one, he ac∣cording to his Discretion pleases all; if they have not what they would have one day, they shall have it the next, or some∣thing as good.

2. The word King directs our Eyes; suppose it had been Consul, or Dictator: to think all Kings alike is the same folly; as if a Consul of Aleppo or Smyrna should claim to himself the same Power that a Consul at Rome, What, am not I a Consul? or a Duke of England should think him∣self like the Duke of Florence; nor can it be imagin'd, that the word 〈 in non-Latin alphabet 〉 did signifie the same in Greek as the He∣brew Word 〈 in non-Latin alphabet 〉 did with the Jews. Be∣sides, let the Divines in their Pulpits say what they will, they in their practice de∣ny that all is the Kings: They sue him, and so does all the Nation, whereof they are a part. What matter is it then what they Preach or Teach in the Schools?

3. Kings are all individual, this or that King, there is no Species of Kings.

4. A King that claims Priviledges in his own Country, because they have them in another, is just as a Cook, that claims Fees in one Lord's House, because they are al∣lowed in another. If the Master of the House will yield them, well and good.

5. The Text [Render unto Caesar the things that are Caesar's] makes as much against Kings, as for them, for it says plainly that some things are not Caesars. But Divines make choice of it, first in Flattery, and then because of the other part adjoyn'd to it [Render unto God the things that are Gods] where they bring in the Church.

6. A King outed of his Country, that takes as much upon him as he did at home, in his own Court, is as if a Man on high, and I being upon the Ground, us'd to lift up my voice to him, that he might hear me, at length should come down, and then expects I should speak as loud to him as I did before.

